This lecture is a big deal.
It's the culmination of everything that we covered already, and we're going to walk through the life
of a packet from the sender through to the receiver and how everything works together to make that possible.
So, really it's a review of what we covered already.
This is going to tie everything together, and it's going to prove to you that you now know the fundamentals
of IP networking.
So in the example here, we've got Host A on the left, and it's going to send some HTTP traffic to our
Web Server
over on the right, which is www.flackbox.com. It's going to use the FQDN to send the traffic.
So, it's also going to need to resolve that FQDN name to the IP address using DNS.
Also, it's a routed network,
we've got different IP subnets there, and we've got a couple of routers in the middle of the topology.
I've deliberately included multiple subnets, routers, and a DNS Server because I want it to mimic what you
would see on real world network because I want you to be confident that you can work on your real work
networks, and you understand how IP networking actually works.
Because of that, there is quite a bit to this example,
so it's going to take a little while. I'm going to split this into two videos.
The first part will cover resolving the FQDN to the IP address by DNS. And then, the second video will
cover the HTTP traffic.
Okay, so let's walk through how this is going to work right from the start.
So again, we're going to use the OSI stack model for this.
Don't worry, this is pretty much the last time you'll see it in the course
now, but it's really fundamental to networking works.
So, that's why you've seen it so many times.
So, one more time, the OSI reference model. We're going to be composing that web traffic and sending it
to the Web Server from our source on the left.
So, it will compose the packet starting off with the information at the Application Layer, that will then
be encapsulated in the Presentation Layer header, and then that will be encapsulated in the Session Layer
header.
Then, we get down to the really important information for networking, so Layer 4, the Transport Layer.
This is web traffic, so it's going to be sent with TCP, and the destination port is going to be Port 80.
Then, when the sender on the left is composing this web traffic, it needs to make the Layer 3 header
next, where it needs to enter the destination IP address, and it doesn't know what the destination IP
address is because the user just opened up a browser and entered in there
www.flackbox.com. So, the sender will need to resolve that to an IP address to complete this
packet, and it's going to use DNS for that. Host A, which is at 10.10.10.10/24,
wants to send a packet to the FQDN of www.flackbox.com, but it doesn't know the destination
IP address. So it will hold onto that packet, and in the meantime, it will send the DNS request to its
DNS Server at 10.10.100.10. So the host already knows its IP address, its subnet mask, its
default gateway, and its DNS Server. Host A will compare its IP address and subnet mask to the destination
address of the DNS Server, and it sees that it's on a different IP subnet, so the DNS request will need
to be sent via its default gateway. Host A will hold the DNS request and send a broadcast ARP request
for its default gateway, which is at 10.10.10.1. So, you can see that in the diagram
here. Host A sends an ARP request, it comes from 10.10.10.10, it says it's looking for its default
gateway 10.10.10.1, and it says, "Hey, what's your MAC address."
So, that comes from a source MAC of 1111.2222.3333, and it goes to a destination MAC of the Layer 2
broadcast address of FFFF.FFFF.FFFF. The ARP request will be received by Switch 1 on the left. Switch 1
will add an entry in its MAC address table, mapping Host A's MAC address of 1111.2222.3333 to
Port 1. Switch 1 will then flood broadcast traffic out all ports apart from the one that it was
received on. So, that will go out Port 2. The ARP request is still from 10.10.10.10,
looking for 10.10.10.1, with a source MAC of 1111.2222.3333, a destination
MAC of FFFFF.FFFF.FFFFF. That will hit router A's interface of 10.10.10.1.
Router A will process the ARP request and see that it is for itself. It will then send a unicast
ARP reply back to Host A, and Router A will add an entry for Host A, mapping IP address of
10.10.10.10 to the MAC address of 1111.2222.3333, and that will be added to its ARP cache.
It will then send the ARP reply. Switch 1 will receive that, and it will add an entry in its MAC address
table, mapping Router A's MAC address of 4444.5555.6666 to Port 2. Switch 1 will then send the ARP reply out
only Port 1, which Host A is plugged into because the ARP reply is a unicast reply, and the switch
already has Host A's MAC address in its MAC address table. It knows it's available out Port 1.
Okay, so there goes the ARP reply. It says, "I'm 10.10.10.1, and here's my MAC address."
That came from Router A, the source MAC is 4444.5555.6666, and the destination MAC is 1111.2222.3333,
on Host A. Host A will receive that,
it will then add an entry for Router A, mapping Router A's IP address of 10.10.10.1
to the MAC address of 4444.5555.6666, it will add that to its ARP cache, and it will then use that whenever
it needs to send traffic to another IP subnet. Host A will then send the DNS request for
www.flackbox.com. So that DNS request, it will say, "Tell me the IP address of www.flackbox.com, please?"
It comes from a source MAC of 1111.2222.3333 on Host A. It goes to Host A's default gateway
MAC address of 4444.5555.6666, the source IP is 10.10.10.10 on Host A, and the
destination IP is its DNS Server at 10.10.100.10. That is unicast traffic, so Switch 1
will send the DNS request out only Port 2, which Router A is plugged into, and which the switch already has
its MAC address table. So, the DNS request will come into Router A. It will receive the request
and see that the destination IP address is 10.10.100.10,
the DNS Server. Router A has an interface in that subnet, 10.10.100.0/24, so it knows that
the destination should be available out that port. It doesn't know the MAC address of 10.10.100.10
yet though, so it will hold the DNS request packet and send an ARP request out of the
10.10.100.1 interface. So, there goes the ARP request. Thats from
10.10.100.1 on the router, it's looking for 10.10.100.10, asking what
its MAC address is. It comes from a source MAC of 8888.9999.AAAA, which is on that interface on the
router. The destination MAC is always the same for an ARP request FFFF.FFFF.FFFF, the Layer 2
broadcast address. The ARP request will be received by Switch 3. Switch 3 will add an entry in
its MAC address table, mapping Router A's MAC address 8888.9999.AAAA to Port 1. It will then flood the broadcast
traffic out all ports apart from the one it was received on. So, that will go down to the DNS Server out Port 2
as well.
Again, the ARP request looks the same as from 10.10.100.1, looking for
10.10.100.10, from a source MAC of 8888.9999.AAAA, destination MAC of FFFF.FFFF.FFFF.
So, the ARP request hits the DNS Server's interface of 10.10.100.10. The DNS
Server will process the ARP request and see that it's for itself. It will then send a unicast ARP reply
back to Router A. The DNS Server will add an entry for Router A, mapping IP address of
10.10.100.1 to MAC address 8888.9999.AAAA to its ARP cache, and it will use that whenever
it needs to send traffic to another IP subnet because 10.10.100.1 is its
default gateway. So there goes the ARP reply from 10.10.100.10, saying, "Here's my MAC address
of source MAC 3333.4444.5555," going back to the router with a destination MAC of 8888.9999.AAAA. Switch 3
will receive that, and it will add an entry in its MAC address table, mapping the DNS Server's MAC
address of 3333.4444.5555 to Port 2. It will then send the ARP reply out only Port 1, which Router A is plugged
into because that is a unicast reply, and it already has Router A in its MAC address table. So, there
goes the ARP reply unchanged on its way to Router A. Router A will receive that. It will then add an entry
for the DNS Server, mapping IP address of 10.10.100.10 to MAC address 3333.4444.5555
to its ARP cache. Router A will then send the DNS request it was holding from Host A to the DNS Server.
Now, the source and destination MAC address of a packet are updated hop by hop, but the source and destination
IP addresses always remain the same end to end unchanged from the original source to the final destination.
The source and destination MAC addresses in our example will be updated to come from Router A
and go to the DNS Server for this DNS request. The source and destination IP addresses are still Host A
10.10.10.10, and the DNS Server is the destination at 10.10.100.10.
So there goes the DNS request, DNS request's saying, "Tell me the IP address of www.flackbox.com."
The source and destination MAC addresses are now changed to be 8888.9999.AAAA on Router A, going to
3333.4444.55555 on the DNS Server. The source IP is still 10.10.10.10 on Host A.
The destination IP is still 10.10.100.10 on the DNS Server. Switch 3 will send
out only Port 2, which is the DNS Server plugged into it, which Switch 3 already has in its
MAC address table. So the DNS request gets sent down to the DNS Server, the DNS Server will receive the
DNS request packet and see that the destination is itself.
So, looking at the OSI stack again. It comes in on the physical wire, and the receiver will then process
the packet starting at the bottom of a stack working its way up. So, it sees that the destination MAC
address is 3333.4444.5555, which is itself. So, it will carry on processing the packet. It sees that
the destination IP address in the Layer 3 header is 10.10.100.10, which again is
itself, it will carry on processing the packet. Then in the Layer 4, Transport header, it sees that it's
UDP and it's at Port 53. So, it knows that this is a DNS request because DNS uses UDP port 53.
It will then pass the packet up the rest of the stack. So look at the Session header, the Presentation
header, and the Application header, and it will process that DNS requests. The server will look in its DNS
database and see an address record for www.flackbox.com at 10.10.12.10.
That was configured in DNS. It will send the information back to Host A in a DNS response. It knows to send the
response to 10.10.10.10 because that was the source IP address in the DNS request.
And it knows to send it via Router A because Router A is its default gateway, and the destination is
in another subnet. The DNS Server already has Router A's MAC address in its ARP cache, so it does not
need to send an ARP request for this. So, the DNS reply says that "www.flackbox.com
is at 10.10.12.10." The source MAC is 3333.4444.5555.
The destination MAC is its default gateway
at 8888.9999.AAAA. Source IP is the DNS Server at 10.10.100.10, and the destination
IP is Host A
at 10.10.10.10. Switch 3 will receive the DNS response, and it will send out only Port 1,
which Router A is plugged into and which it already has in its MAC address table.
So, it passes that onto Router A. Router A will receive the DNS response packet and see the destination
IP address 10.10.10.10. It has an interface in the subnet of 10.10.10.0/24,
so it knows that the destination should be available out that port and Router A has the MAC
address for 10.10.10.10 in its ARP cache. So, again it doesn't need to send another ARP
request. So it will send the DNS reply out that interface, again it is going from source IP
10.10.100.10, the DNS Server going to destination IP 10.10.10.10 Host A. So that doesn't
change, but the source and destination MAC will be updated.
Source MAC is 4444.5555.6666, and the destination MAC is 1111.2222.3333, which is the MAC address is on the
left hand side of Roter A. Switch 1 will receive the DNS response and send out only Port 1, which Host A
is plugged into and which it already has in its MAC address table. So, it passes the DNS reply down
to Host A. Host A now learns from that DNS response that www.flackbox.com is available
at 10.10.12.10. It can now update the packet it was waiting to send to
www.flackbox.com with that destination IP address. Host A sees that the Web Server is not on its own subnet,
so it knows that any packets it sends there must go via its default gateway.
Okay, so at this point Host A has learned the IP address of the Web Server through DNS. So, that covers
us for part 1 of this lecture. In part 2, in the next lecture, you'll see how the actual HTTP traffic makes
it over to the Web Server.